Hillel’s Secret Diary  
Operation: Sabbath Ninja  

Monday, October 3  
Day 1 of Public School Hell  
Goal: Survive without writing on Shabbos.  
I’m nine today and got forced into public school. Papa bribed Ms. Nina with candy (well, with a gift) so she thinks I’m “sick” every Saturday. Now I’m officially the “strong‐but‐weak” kid: I never go to school Sundays and Saturdays. Unfairness rating: 12/10.  

Tuesday, October 4  
Day 2: Music Class Disaster  
They made us sing “Glory to Stalin” like it’s a bedtime lullaby. I clammed up and whispered “I don’t like your songs.” Cue cold sweat. Ms. Nina snarled, “Sing something of your own!” My heart sank—until I remembered Pinchasov’s Azerbaijani tunes blasting in the hallway. I strutted up and sang “Ochi Chernye.” Teacher’s jaw dropped so hard I thought she’d swallow it. Crisis averted. Secret mission success #1.  

Wednesday, October 5  
Day 3: Tzitzis Undercover Ops  
I have to wear tzitzis and the red Pioneer tie every morning. Plan: bathroom swap. In at dawn—tzitzis off, red rag on. Out at noon—tie off, tzitzis back on. So far so good, except today my strings peeked out during PE. Nurse called me “little rabbi.” I almost flexed my muscles to look tough, but Nurse’s wink saved me. Stealth level: Ninja Apprentice.  

Thursday, October 6  
Day 4: Summoned to the Principal’s Dungeon  
They know. Principal called Papa and me to “explain” my Saturday absences. He growled, “Your health excuse won’t fly forever!” Then he threatened we’d be sent to a Soviet orphanage—State Writing Camp. Papa begged me to go to this Saturday’s class. I refused. At dawn on Shabbos, I snuck away to Michoel’s house and hid there until everyone woke up. Escape: 10/10. Regret: my mother’s sad face = 100/10.  

Friday, October 7  
Day 5: New School, New Nightmare  
Papa moved me to a school an hour’s walk away. Now I trek through dark alleys at 6 a.m. in rain, snow, or bear attack (okay, no bears, but close). My boots squeak like a tractor. Every shadow looks like a teacher spying on me. But I get to stay home Saturday! Silver lining: I’m building “Sabbath Absence Muscles.”  

Sunday, October 9  
Day 6: Ghost Student Achievement  
Papa tried transferring my records back to our old school so he could hide me again. But he forgot the paperwork. Weeks passed. Neither school knew where I was. I became a ghost—no classes, no threats, no Communist songs. Operation Sabbath Ninja: COMPLETE.  

Overall Unfairness Ranking: 9 out of 10 (lost bike, but gained ultimate freedom).  
Secret Status: Too good. I might start charging for tutorial.  

THE END (of this notebook)